Hey What's up everybody this is Jason with Def slips dot com.
And today I'm going to show you three ways that you can set up success in your project.
So let's let's start a new project if you're using brackets.
Go ahead do the drop down.
And I'm going to just throw this on my desktop.
OK.
I'm going to call this learned C Ss and we're going to open this up.
So now we've got a blank project to start with.
Right click on the left hand nav bar here click new file and then create an index die aged him now.
All right cool.
So we're going to write this from the ground up.
So go ahead and write in the doc type H.T. mail.
This is a good practice that helps the browser identify your website as in each HTML file.
And then let's create the Tamil body here.
And this is another good practice set.
Set the language to your age T.M. Web site.
This way the browser knows what default language to load it in.
And then let's go ahead and create the head of our age HTML file and inside the head we're going to
create a title.
So learn see.
All right cool.
So that's all we're going to put into the head and then we need a body for HTML file right.
Everything needs a body.
Cool.
So that's great.
All right so we've got everything set up here.
So what are the three ways that we can you know put success into our project.
Well to learn how to do that let's just create a basic head or one tag.
I'm going to take you through a few quick examples.
OK.
So we're going to do one a one called let's see ice cream and then a head or two that says I love CSX.
All right cool.
Now if you're using brackets go ahead and hit the thumb report here.
This is going to pull up a preview of everything that we're doing here so you can see that I've got
a head of one and a head or two.
All right.
And I'm going to hit command tab.
It switches me back to brackets OK.
So that's what I'm going to be doing to toggle between the two.
All right so one way to add success to your elements in your web site is called inline styling and to
do that you're literally going to come inside the element and add the styling.
And to do that you would write style equals double quotes and we're going to grab the color property
and assign it to let's do let's do red.
Now I'm typing out red because I can't remember the hex code for red and you can do that sometimes but
remember I said I like to use hex code hex codes.
All right so let's check this out again and you can see that it changed the font.
Now let's go ahead and change this one style.
Let's do the color equals green K and end it with a semicolon.
OK.
Refresh that and check that out so it's change it to green.
So that's one way.
Now let's go ahead and add another style.
So let's add a border and then you hit a semi-colon and let's do this one pixel which determines the
thickness will make it thicker so you can see three pixels.
And then you can define a solid and then the color of it which will do Blue K and it added a solid three
pixel blue border.
And you can even change this to dotted this is just some fun stuff you can do with borders to change
it up a little bit.
OK.
So there's that.
Now you can imagine that if I'm building an entire Web site and I'm doing everything inline styles that
my web site is probably going to start looking really really really messy.
And another thing what if I had a bunch of header tags from my web site and I want to change them all
from red to purple I'm going to go have to select every header one element and change the color on every
single one of those.
So inline styling is something you can do.
I don't recommend it.
So that's one way that you can add success to your project came inline styling.
Now the second way you can do this is within the head.
You can actually add internal stylesheet.
And so what we would do here is would go ahead and grab the header one tag.
OK.
I did something wrong.
I spelled it wrong.
That's why this isn't working.
All right.
So you can grab the head or one tag and then you're going to make some curly brackets.
OK.
And then we can assign the color to be purple.
So if we come back here and you can see that's purple and if we wanted to grab the head or two element
we could add the color to be.
I don't know yellow.
Ok cool.
Wow.
You can't even see that let's change the color.
Let's see turquoise.
That's a cool color.
All right cool.
That's better.
So you can do things like that.
OK.
You can go ahead and add a background of what goes good with purple yellow background might go good.
And there is a yellow background.
So that's some basic examples of how you can do internal styling.
Again you can imagine if you're building this big web site.
This file is going to get pretty long as you had different classes and everything right.
It's going to get really big again.
You can do this.
I don't recommend it.
All right.
Now the third way.
This is the way that I recommend.
All right.
So the third way of doing this is adding an external style sheet cam and the way that you do that is
you're going to create a specific CSSA file so we can right click on the left hand side here click new
file and I'm going to call the style CSSA has to you have to have the CSSA at the end to identify the
file as a stylesheet.
Ok cool.
So now we've got a style sheet here but we need our Jamail page two to communicate with the style sheet
we've got to link it so that we can pull in the styles from the external file into our HDL file.
All right.
And to do them inside the head we're going to add this link.
We're going to link Persius as filed here and the relationship which is real is a style sheet.
OK.
And then to linkit This is like the u r l or the file path to our stylesheet.
You can see that it's bringing it up already forming styles.
Yes s and close it off there.
So now with this with this line we have just pulled in our CSSA file and this has to be put inside the
head.
OK.
All right cool.
So now we can come over to here type in a header one for example and do a color.
What colors do we have here.
Let's do it.
This kind of fluorescent green.
And then we can grab our head or two element and assign it a color.
Let's pick something fancy.
Coral coral is cool.
All right.
And then we can switch it up here and we've got our green and our coral color.
So you know it's working pretty cool right.
So those are the three ways you can add CSSA to your project.
And for this for this entire course the section we're going to be using an external stylesheet.
So cool.
We've got the template here.
Go ahead and delete the styling in there and we can delete this example stuff here.
So that's it.
That's a wrap for this lesson.
Let's move on.